[Excel] (Custom Functions) Updates to AsyncStorage docs + save/state (#924)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/excel/custom-functions-save-state.md

---
ms.date: 04/25/2019
description: Use `Office.Storage` to save state with custom functions. 
title: Save and share state in custom functions (preview)
localization_priority: Priority
---

> ## Save and share state in custom functions

Reviewer: Should mention how long state is persisted. does it time out after a certain number of days? Can you clear it (like by clearing cache?) Can you rely on it (like can user reset it somehow and surprise your code). This could be a future doc item, but at some point we should add this info.

Author: That is a really good question, will have to ask Keyur. I will make a note to ask him

> The main storage location for custom functions is `Office.Storage`. Storage is limited to 10 MB per domain (which may be shared across multiple add-ins). On Excel for Windows, `Office.Storage` is a separate location within the custom functions runtime, but for Excel Online and Excel for Mac, `Office.Storage` is the same as the browser's `localStorage`. `Office.Storage` is a useful storage location that can be accessed by both custom functions and your add-in's task pane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `Office.Storage` object to save state related to custom functions or the task pane in your add-in. Storage is limited to 10 MB per domain (which may be shared across multiple add-ins). On Excel for Windows, the `Storage` object is a separate location within the custom functions runtime, but for Excel Online and Excel for Mac, the `Storage` object is the same as the browser's `localStorage`.
```

Reviewer: Change from "Office.Storage" => "Storage object" in rest of article.

> There are multiple ways to use `Office.Storage` to save and share state:

Reviewer 2: Consider "There are multiple ways to use `Office.Storage` to save and share state:" -> "There are multiple ways to use `Office.Storage` for state management:"

- You can store default values for custom functions to use when you are offline and unable to reach a web resource
- You can save values for custom functions to use to avoid making additional calls to a web resource

> - You can save values here from your custom function for your task pane to use

Reviewer 2: "You can save values here from your custom function" -> "You can save values from your custom function"

Author: Thanks I knew the way I worded these was wonky

> - You can store values from your task pane here for your custom function to use

Reviewer 2: Please add periods to the end of all these.

> - You can store values from your task pane here for your custom function to use

Reviewer 2: "You can store values from your task pane here for your custom function" -> "You can store values from your task pane for your custom function"

> The following code sample illustrates how to storing an item into `Office.Storage` and then retrieve it.

Reviewer 2: Consider: "and then retrieve it." -> "and retrieve it."

> The following code sample illustrates how to storing an item into `Office.Storage` and then retrieve it.

Reviewer 2: Typo: "storing" -> "store"

```js
function StoreValue(key, value) {

> 

Reviewer 2: Nit: remove this blank line.

  return Office.Storage.setItem(key, value).then(function (result) {
      return "Success: Item with key '" + key + "' saved to AsyncStorage.";
  }, function (error) {
      return "Error: Unable to save item with key '" + key + "' to AsyncStorage. " + error;
  });
}

function GetValue(key) {
  return Office.Storage.getItem(key);
}

CustomFunctions.associate("STOREVALUE", StoreValue);
CustomFunctions.associate("GETVALUE", GetValue);
```

> [A more detailed code sample on GitHub](https://github.com/OfficeDev/PnP-OfficeAddins/tree/master/Excel-custom-functions/AsyncStorage) gives an example of passing this information to the task pane.

Reviewer: I'm going to have to rename that folder aren't I? :-)

Author: :) Yeahhhh

>[!NOTE]

> > `Office.Storage` replaced the previous storage location, `AsyncStorage` which will be deprecated in the future. If using `AsyncStorage` in your current custom functions code, please update it to `Office.Storage`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The `Office.Storage` object replaces the previous storage object named `AsyncStorage` which is now deprecated. If using the `AsyncStorage` object in your current custom functions code, please update it to use the `Office.Storage` object.
```
